

If there ever is a second Scottish independence referendum, the nationalists could do worse than recruit former Python John Cleese to front their campaign. Heretofore not particularly known as a proponent of Scottish separatism, the Fawlty Towers creator has nevertheless found himself at the centre of the latest Twitter spat (is there really any other kind of "spat" these days?) over alleged racism against Scots.

"'Why do we let half-educated tenement Scots run our English press?" Cleese artlessly tweeted yesterday in response to a column by my compatriot Fraser Nelson in this very newspaper. 

As you would expect, this set off exactly the kind of high-pitched indignation for which Twitter was created: Scots across the world piled in to castigate Cleese for his absurd, ill thought-out comments. Inevitably, he found himself having to defend himself against the charge of racism:

Dear God, man, just stop digging!

(And incidentally, since Scots are not a race, Cleese is correct in his insistence that he wasn't being a racist; he was, however, being a tool.)

Determined to dig ever deeper, Cleese then suggested that the number of Scottish editors of UK newspapers was not reflected in the number of English men or women who edit Scottish newspapers. By the time the editor of the Scottish Daily Mail replied to out himself and the editor of the Scottish Daily Express as English, Cleese had wisely departed the battlefield, no doubt describing his monumental drubbing, like the Black Knight he memorably portrayed on screen, as "barely a scratch".
"You see, you could never do a sketch like that these days. The audience is too uninformed. I blame the Americans. Nation of obese, violent, pig-ignorant, bible-thumping morons contaminating world culture. That’s why I spend most of my time here in France..."John Cleese, playing a senile version of himself

The funny-walking Hitler impressionist's resentment at Scots' influence is unfamiliar to me, as a former politician and a journalist, two professions in which Scots have been remarkably successful both at a UK and at global level.

And yet complaints about such influence has been muted, I think, for two reasons: one, because no one has ever suggested that Scots are a persecuted minority for whom special treatment has been provided to give us a hand up the greasy pole; and two, columnists who do harbour such resentments are wary of annoying their Scottish editor.

Perhaps Cleese, in his autumnal years, is surrendering to the prejudices of age, blaming those of a different background to his for any ills that might be befall him, or for anything at all that annoys him.

Monty Python in its day was so influential on our culture and on succeeding generations of comedians and writers that we forget now that Cleese and his fellow Pythons hailed from very privileged backgrounds.

That didn't seem to matter much because of their irreverent mockery of authority, culminating in Cleese's and Michael Palin's iconic televised defence of "The Life of Brian" against the outrage of Malcolm Muggeridge and the Bishop of Southwark.
